**Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?** 

	The code can currently be tested in Android Studio. If it was compiled as an API, it would require a phone capable of running Android 10 or higher. The goal behind creating this app was to allow users to be able to track their weights. Users can enter their weights daily. Users can then view, edit, and delete these weights. Creating this app also allowed myself to gain experience creating applications. 

**What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?**

	My app consists of four main screens; a login screen, a screen to view entered weights, a screen to enter weights, and a screen to enable SMS notifications. When editing a weight, a popup displays over the user weights screen. The UI is cohesive, consisting of the same button styles, color scheme, and font. The buttons have an easy to understand design to them; the login, create account, edit weight, and delete weight all have text labels. The add weight button has a plus symbol, the back button has a back symbol, and the settings button has a settings symbol. There is a high visibility between the text, UI, and background, the text and buttons are large.
	The simplicity behind the buttons ensures that new users can easily navigate the app. The high visibility being UI elements and large text sizes ensure that the user can see the UI elements and text with ease, and the large buttons allow for them to easily be pressed. The overall cohesiveness within the app ensures that there is continuity between the screens, resulting in a more pleasing appearance. 

**How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?**

	When creating my app, I used an iterative technique. I first started by creating the UI elements to ensure the app was aesthetically pleasing and intuitive to use. I then focused on ensuring that the buttons that lead to a new screen functioned as intended. Following that, I started to work on implementing the database so users could create accounts, login, and add weights. Once this was complete, I focused on adding the necessary functionality to allow users to add weights. Then, I was able to implement the functionality to edit and delete weights. Throughout the process, I refined my app design when I felt it was needed, like adding in the pop-up when the user edits their previously entered weights. 
	This technique is commonly used by myself, and I will continue to use it in the future. I find that projects are much more manageable and less overwhelming when they are broken up into smaller tasks. 

**How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?**

	To ensure that my code was functional, I continually debugged it throughout the entire process. Anytime I would add any new functionality, I would debug the app to ensure the functionality works as intended. Once the app was complete, I did one final run through where I created an account, logged in, added a weight, edited the weight, deleted the weight, and allowed permissions for SMS activity, ensuring all features worked as intended. 
	Most of the debugging showed that the app was working as intended, but I ran into an issue where once a user weight was entered, the only thing that would show was the delete button, and removing the UI for the button allowed the data entered to showcase. When creating the UI, I initially thought that my gridview, which showed the data, needed three columns; one for the date, one for the weight, and one for the delete button. Debugging the code, and trial and error, allowed me to discover that the number of columns only needed to be one. Ultimately, debugging your code helps to ensure that the code works as intended. 

**Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?**

	Overall, I found this project to be pretty straightforward, with the biggest  challenge being to ensure that I set aside an appropriate amount of time to work on it. I wish that I had started working on it prior to week 5 when the UI portion of the project was due.  I feel that there is quite a bit more I could’ve done to make the app better, but ultimately it does have a solid foundation. The other challenge I faced was listed in the above section, and was overcome by trial and error.

**In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?**

	The component that I best demonstrated my knowledge of was the database for user login credentials and weights. I haven’t worked very much with databases, so properly setting one up feels like a success. Through my app, users are able to create accounts that are remembered by the app. They are also able to add weights that are remembered by the app, and update and delete those weights, with the app showcasing the changes. 
